README.adoc, before:

= README
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnums:
:icons: font

== Introduction

This project is intended to provide a standardised approach to creating simple html pages and pdf files from AsciiDoc files.

Also, creation of DocBook (xml) files and other output from the DocBook toolchain, such as chunked html pages.

== Installation

=== Installing AsciiDoc on Centos

 $ sudo yum install asciidoc
 $ sudo yum install asciidoctor
 $ sudo yum install xmlto

=== Installing AsciiDoc on Ubuntu

 $ sudo apt-get install asciidoc
 $ sudo apt-get install asciidoctor
 $ sudo apt-get install xmlto

=== Upgrade Ruby

Check the version of Ruby:

 $ ruby --version

Check the pre-requisites for asciidoctor-pdf here: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/#prerequisites.

To upgrade to a newer version of Ruby, follow the notes in <<Upgrading Ruby and RVM>>.

=== Install Ruby Gems

Install the Ruby Gems for asciidoctor, asciidoctor-pdf and the supporting gems for creating pdf files:

 $ gem install asciidoctor
 $ gem install prawn
 $ gem install prawn-svg
 $ gem install prawn-templates
 $ gem install asciidoctor-pdf --pre

Check the version of asciidoctor-pdf to prove the installation:

 $ asciidoctor-pdf -v

NOTE: See <<Managing Ruby Gems>> for notes on how to list and/or remove Ruby Gems.

== Configuring AsciiDoc

Create an asciidoc directory, e.g. /home/user/asciidoc.

Create the following subfolders and contents (which can be pulled/downloaded from this Git project):

* fonts
* gen_html
* gen_pdf

For notes on the how the directory contents were created/defined/sourced, see <<Supporting Files>>.

== Usage

=== Creating HTML files

Convert asciidoc to HTML5 with TOC on LHS:

 $ asciidoctor -b html5 -a docinfodir=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html -a docinfo=shared -a stylesheet=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html/css_local.css -a toc source_file.txt

NOTE: `docinfo=shared` refers to `docinfo.html` and provides includes for the `<head>` tag +
`toc` is an index at the top of the page +
`toc2` is a left hand side index

=== Creating PDF files

Convert asciidoc to pdf:

 $ asciidoctor-pdf -a pdf-style=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_pdf/pdf_theme_croscore.yml -a pdf-fontsdir=/home/user/asciidoc/fonts -a toc source_file.txt

=== Creating DocBook files

Convert asciidoc to docbook:

 $ asciidoctor -b docbook source_file.xml

=== Creating "chunked" HTML files

Convert docbook to html pages, "chunking" on Heading 2:

 $ xmlto --skip-validation --stringparam chunk.section.depth=2 xhtml -o www source_file.xml

NOTE: `--skip-validation` avoids errors due to deprecated stylesheets.

=== Simplifying Usage

To simplify usage, create aliases in your local shell (or .bashrc) for example:

 $ alias asciidoctor='asciidoctor -b html5 -a docinfodir=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html -a docinfo=shared -a stylesheet=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html/css_local.css'
 $ alias asciidoctor-pdf='asciidoctor-pdf -a pdf-style=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_pdf/pdf_theme_croscore.yml -a pdf-fontsdir=/home/user/asciidoc/fonts'

To use the aliases:

 $ asciidoctor -a toc source_file.txt
 $ asciidoctor-pdf -a toc source_file.txt

Remember that aliases can be overridden with a leading backslash in order to call the executable directly, for example:

 $ \asciidoctor -b docbook source_file.txt

You could also create shell scripts to combine generation of multiple output files based on a single file name as an argument.

<<<

== Appendices

[appendix]
=== Upgrading Ruby and RVM

If an upgrade to a newer version of Ruby is required, (install and) use RVM.

Ref:

* https://tecadmin.net/install-ruby-latest-stable-centos/
* http://rvm.io
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/#prerequisites

 $ curl -sSL https://rvm.io/mpapis.asc | gpg --import -
 $ curl -sSL get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
 $ source /home/user/.rvm/scripts/rvm
 $ rvm reload
 $ rvm requirements run
 $ rvm install 2.5.1
 $ rvm list
 $ rvm use 2.5.1 --default
 $ ruby --version

[appendix]
=== Managing Ruby Gems

To list and/or remove Ruby Gems:

 $ gem list
 $ gem uninstall ...

[appendix]
=== Supporting Files

Ref:

* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-pdf/blob/master/docs/theming-guide.adoc

Notes:

* create docinfo.html with link tags or similar for the html header
* create a local css stylesheet, based on one of the asciidoctor default stylesheets located in `/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.4.0/gems/asciidoctor-1.5.6.2/data/stylesheets/` or similar.
* create a local pdf yaml stylesheet, based on one of the asciidoctor defaults located in `/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.4.0/gems/asciidoctor-pdf-1.5.0.alpha.16/data/themes/` or similar.
* create a fonts directory, based on the asciidoctor defaults located in `/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.4.0/gems/asciidoctor-pdf-1.5.0.alpha.16/data/fonts/` or similar.
  You can add any additional .ttf font that you want to include in pdf documents.

Commit message:

Updated introduction section with notes on example files.

README.adoc, after:

= README
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnums:
:icons: font

== Introduction

This project is intended to provide a standardised approach to creating simple html pages and pdf files from AsciiDoc files.

Also, creation of DocBook (xml) files and associated output from the DocBook toolchain, such as chunked html pages.

In the examples directory is `noddy.adoc` - an AsciiDoc formatted text file - along with generated output in html, pdf and DocBook (xml) formats.
In examples/www are a set of "chunked" html files, generated from the DocBook output.

== Installation

=== Installing AsciiDoc on Centos

 $ sudo yum install asciidoc
 $ sudo yum install asciidoctor
 $ sudo yum install xmlto

=== Installing AsciiDoc on Ubuntu

 $ sudo apt-get install asciidoc
 $ sudo apt-get install asciidoctor
 $ sudo apt-get install xmlto

=== Upgrade Ruby

Check the version of Ruby:

 $ ruby --version

Check the pre-requisites for asciidoctor-pdf here: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/#prerequisites.

To upgrade to a newer version of Ruby, follow the notes in <<Upgrading Ruby and RVM>>.

=== Install Ruby Gems

Install the Ruby Gems for asciidoctor, asciidoctor-pdf and the supporting gems for creating pdf files:

 $ gem install asciidoctor
 $ gem install prawn
 $ gem install prawn-svg
 $ gem install prawn-templates
 $ gem install asciidoctor-pdf --pre

Check the version of asciidoctor-pdf to prove the installation:

 $ asciidoctor-pdf -v

NOTE: See <<Managing Ruby Gems>> for notes on how to list and/or remove Ruby Gems.

== Configuring AsciiDoc

Create an asciidoc directory, e.g. /home/user/asciidoc.

Create the following subfolders and contents (which can be pulled/downloaded from this Git project):

* fonts
* gen_html
* gen_pdf

For notes on the how the directory contents were created/defined/sourced, see <<Supporting Files>>.

== Usage

=== Creating HTML files

Convert asciidoc to HTML5 with TOC on LHS:

 $ asciidoctor -b html5 -a docinfodir=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html -a docinfo=shared -a stylesheet=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html/css_local.css -a toc source_file.txt

NOTE: `docinfo=shared` refers to `docinfo.html` and provides includes for the `<head>` tag +
`toc` is an index at the top of the page +
`toc2` is a left hand side index

=== Creating PDF files

Convert asciidoc to pdf:

 $ asciidoctor-pdf -a pdf-style=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_pdf/pdf_theme_croscore.yml -a pdf-fontsdir=/home/user/asciidoc/fonts -a toc source_file.txt

=== Creating DocBook files

Convert asciidoc to docbook:

 $ asciidoctor -b docbook source_file.xml

=== Creating "chunked" HTML files

Convert docbook to html pages, "chunking" on Heading 2:

 $ xmlto --skip-validation --stringparam chunk.section.depth=2 xhtml -o www source_file.xml

NOTE: `--skip-validation` avoids errors due to deprecated stylesheets.

=== Simplifying Usage

To simplify usage, create aliases in your local shell (or .bashrc) for example:

 $ alias asciidoctor='asciidoctor -b html5 -a docinfodir=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html -a docinfo=shared -a stylesheet=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_html/css_local.css'
 $ alias asciidoctor-pdf='asciidoctor-pdf -a pdf-style=/home/user/asciidoc/gen_pdf/pdf_theme_croscore.yml -a pdf-fontsdir=/home/user/asciidoc/fonts'

To use the aliases:

 $ asciidoctor -a toc source_file.txt
 $ asciidoctor-pdf -a toc source_file.txt

Remember that aliases can be overridden with a leading backslash in order to call the executable directly, for example:

 $ \asciidoctor -b docbook source_file.txt

You could also create shell scripts to combine generation of multiple output files based on a single file name as an argument.

<<<

== Appendices

[appendix]
=== Upgrading Ruby and RVM

If an upgrade to a newer version of Ruby is required, (install and) use RVM.

Ref:

* https://tecadmin.net/install-ruby-latest-stable-centos/
* http://rvm.io
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/#prerequisites

 $ curl -sSL https://rvm.io/mpapis.asc | gpg --import -
 $ curl -sSL get.rvm.io | bash -s stable
 $ source /home/user/.rvm/scripts/rvm
 $ rvm reload
 $ rvm requirements run
 $ rvm install 2.5.1
 $ rvm list
 $ rvm use 2.5.1 --default
 $ ruby --version

[appendix]
=== Managing Ruby Gems

To list and/or remove Ruby Gems:

 $ gem list
 $ gem uninstall ...

[appendix]
=== Supporting Files

Ref:

* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-pdf/blob/master/docs/theming-guide.adoc

Notes:

* create docinfo.html with link tags or similar for the html header
* create a local css stylesheet, based on one of the asciidoctor default stylesheets located in `/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.4.0/gems/asciidoctor-1.5.6.2/data/stylesheets/` or similar.
* create a local pdf yaml stylesheet, based on one of the asciidoctor defaults located in `/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.4.0/gems/asciidoctor-pdf-1.5.0.alpha.16/data/themes/` or similar.
* create a fonts directory, based on the asciidoctor defaults located in `/usr/local/rvm/gems/ruby-2.4.0/gems/asciidoctor-pdf-1.5.0.alpha.16/data/fonts/` or similar.
  You can add any additional .ttf font that you want to include in pdf documents.
