examples/noddy.adoc, before:

= Noddy AsciiDoc Document
Tom Davies <tom.davies@nhs.net>
v1.0 - 21/04/2018
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnums:
:icons: font

== Introduction

This document is an introduction to AsciiDoc and some of the basic
formatting options.

== Heading 1

=== Heading 2

==== Heading 3

===== Heading 4

Here is some text.

NOTE: Headings can be automatically numbered with by adding the `:sectnums:` attribute to the document header.
However, autonumbering of headings don't appear to carry through to docbook output and downstream files, e.g. chunked xhtml.
Automatic links and anchors can be enabled with the `:sectlinks:` and `:sectanchors:` attributes.

== Text formatting

=== Paragraphs and line breaks

Paragraphs don't require any special markup in AsciiDoc.
A paragraph is just one or more lines of consecutive text.

To begin a new paragraph, separate it by at least one blank line.
Newlines within a paragraph are not displayed.

Manual line breaks +
can be forced with a "plus" sign +
at the end of a line.

[%hardbreaks]
Or use `[%hardbreaks]` at the
start of a paragraph in
order to force line breaks.

The following 
paragraph will 
return to normal 
line breaks.

NOTE: Line breaks don't appear to carry through to docbook output and downstream files, e.g. chunked xhtml.

You can also insert horizontal rules. There should be one between here...

'''

\... and here.

// NB: the backslash in the line above is an example of escaping a special character.

NOTE: Horizontal rules don't appear to carry through to docbook output and downstream files, e.g. chunked xhtml.

Now let's try a page break (only for pdf output).

<<<

=== Bold, italics and monospace

You can make *words* or whole lines *bold* by enclosing with an asterisk.

Use _underscores_ for _italics_.

And `monospace text` can be forced with `backticks`.

The above can be *_combined_*.

=== Code blocks

Prefixing lines/blocks with a single space will result in literal sections:

 echo "This is a test"

This is useful for defining code/output blocks:

 $ ls -ld .bash*
 -rw-------. 1 toda1 toda1 23576 Apr 19 16:29 .bash_history
 -rw-r--r--. 1 toda1 toda1    18 Aug  2  2016 .bash_logout
 -rw-r--r--. 1 toda1 toda1   745 Apr 17 10:29 .bash_profile
 -rw-r--r--. 1 toda1 toda1   814 Apr 19 09:21 .bashrc
 $

Or you can specify a delimited block with four repeated hyphens or periods enclosing the the block.

----
if [ "$playlist" = "Wittertainment" ]
then
  echo "Hello to Jason Isaacs"
fi
----

== Lists

=== Unordered lists

* one
* two
** two-sub
*** two-sub-sub
* three

=== Ordered lists

. one
. two
.. two-sub
... two-sub-sub
. three

=== Labelled lists

Label 1::
Definition 1
Label 2::
Definition 2
Label 3::
Definition 3

== Admonitions

Admonitions are special blocks of text:

NOTE: This is a note.

Here's another one:

TIP: This is a tip.

And another one:

IMPORTANT: This is important.

And another one:

WARNING: This is a warning.

And another one:

CAUTION: You should be careful.

To enable icons in admonitions, set `:icons: font` in the document header. 
This will enable "Font Awesome".
For more details, see https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#admonition-icons.

== Links

A simple link: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/

A labelled link: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/[AsciiDoc syntax quick reference]

A link to an internal "anchor", in this case a header: <<Links>>

== Tables

.Table of stuff
|===
|Number |English |French |German

|1      |One     |Un     | Ein

|2 |Two |Deux |Zwei

|3
|Three
|Trois
|Drei

|===

Commit message:

Amended admonition order and text.

examples/noddy.adoc, after:

= Noddy AsciiDoc Document
Tom Davies <tom.davies@nhs.net>
v1.0 - 21/04/2018
:sectanchors:
:sectlinks:
:sectnums:
:icons: font

== Introduction

This document is an introduction to AsciiDoc and some of the basic
formatting options.

== Heading 1

=== Heading 2

==== Heading 3

===== Heading 4

Here is some text.

NOTE: Headings can be automatically numbered with by adding the `:sectnums:` attribute to the document header.
However, autonumbering of headings don't appear to carry through to docbook output and downstream files, e.g. chunked xhtml.
Automatic links and anchors can be enabled with the `:sectlinks:` and `:sectanchors:` attributes.

== Text formatting

=== Paragraphs and line breaks

Paragraphs don't require any special markup in AsciiDoc.
A paragraph is just one or more lines of consecutive text.

To begin a new paragraph, separate it by at least one blank line.
Newlines within a paragraph are not displayed.

Manual line breaks +
can be forced with a "plus" sign +
at the end of a line.

[%hardbreaks]
Or use `[%hardbreaks]` at the
start of a paragraph in
order to force line breaks.

The following 
paragraph will 
return to normal 
line breaks.

NOTE: Line breaks don't appear to carry through to docbook output and downstream files, e.g. chunked xhtml.

You can also insert horizontal rules. There should be one between here...

'''

\... and here.

// NB: the backslash in the line above is an example of escaping a special character.

NOTE: Horizontal rules don't appear to carry through to docbook output and downstream files, e.g. chunked xhtml.

Now let's try a page break (only for pdf output).

<<<

=== Bold, italics and monospace

You can make *words* or whole lines *bold* by enclosing with an asterisk.

Use _underscores_ for _italics_.

And `monospace text` can be forced with `backticks`.

The above can be *_combined_*.

=== Code blocks

Prefixing lines/blocks with a single space will result in literal sections:

 echo "This is a test"

This is useful for defining code/output blocks:

 $ ls -ld .bash*
 -rw-------. 1 toda1 toda1 23576 Apr 19 16:29 .bash_history
 -rw-r--r--. 1 toda1 toda1    18 Aug  2  2016 .bash_logout
 -rw-r--r--. 1 toda1 toda1   745 Apr 17 10:29 .bash_profile
 -rw-r--r--. 1 toda1 toda1   814 Apr 19 09:21 .bashrc
 $

Or you can specify a delimited block with four repeated hyphens or periods enclosing the the block.

----
if [ "$playlist" = "Wittertainment" ]
then
  echo "Hello to Jason Isaacs"
fi
----

== Lists

=== Unordered lists

* one
* two
** two-sub
*** two-sub-sub
* three

=== Ordered lists

. one
. two
.. two-sub
... two-sub-sub
. three

=== Labelled lists

Label 1::
Definition 1
Label 2::
Definition 2
Label 3::
Definition 3

== Admonitions

Admonitions are special blocks of text:

NOTE: This is a NOTE style admonition.

Here's another one:

TIP: This is a TIP style admonition.

And another one:

WARNING: This is a WARNING style admonition.

And another one:

IMPORTANT: This is an IMPORTANT style admonition.

And another one:

CAUTION: This is a CAUTION style admonition.

To enable icons in admonitions, set `:icons: font` in the document header. 
This will enable "Font Awesome".
For more details, see https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/#admonition-icons.

== Links

A simple link: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/user-manual/

A labelled link: https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-syntax-quick-reference/[AsciiDoc syntax quick reference]

A link to an internal "anchor", in this case a header: <<Links>>

== Tables

.Table of stuff
|===
|Number |English |French |German

|1      |One     |Un     | Ein

|2 |Two |Deux |Zwei

|3
|Three
|Trois
|Drei

|===
